[Music]
what would happen if the earth stopped
spinning
we've always been fascinated by what
would become of Earth and us if
something disaster has happened well I
try not to think about it anyway have
you wondered about it as well well
that's why Hollywood makes so many
movies about the end of the world
we at bright side decided to find out
what would happen if earth suddenly
stops spinning it's really slowing down
by the way let's have a look at the
incredible consequences that might
follow one day what all objects would
fly east at high speed with their own
momentum we don't notice the huge speed
at which the earth is spinning but if it
stopped says Sten Odin Wald from NASA
everything on its surface would be torn
off the ground and fly east eventually
falling back down at the equator the
speed would be the greatest about a
thousand miles per hour while closer to
the poles it would reach 800 miles per
hour
who number two enormous tidal waves
would occur the power of momentum would
make the water in the seas and oceans
move to form extremely powerful tsunamis
they would move east and clean the
coastal cities off the face of the earth
oh we hope it'll never happen
number three a powerful wind would rise
[Music]
the atmosphere would continue moving and
its momentum would make it rotate around
the planet probably several times the
starting airflow speed would be enormous
more than 1,100 miles per hour it's
possible that earth would lose part of
its atmosphere while this happens so
ultra breath number four all water on
earth would collect in two oceans and a
new continent would form what our
gathers at the equator now due to
centrifugal force a sudden stop in earth
spinning would make the land masses and
water redistribute themselves to form
two great oceans on both poles the land
on the equator would rise and create a
gigantic new continent covering the
whole planet through the equator good
time to know somebody in real estate huh
number five volcanic eruptions
hurricanes and earthquakes would begin
the huge kinetic force of earth and its
momentum which shake the planet to its
core the result is quite predictable
all-powerful hurricanes
volcanic eruptions and destructive
earthquakes would begin everywhere
[Music]
number sexes earth would transform from
a geoid into a sphere the geoid shape of
earth is due to its spinning motion it's
a bit flattened on the poles and a
little bulging at the equator kind of
like me you can find a lecture by
professor each young guys from ens de
Leon online to get more details if the
planet stops its shape will become more
spherical number seven one hemisphere
would become as hot as a desert and the
other would be as cold as the Antarctic
if Earth continued to make just one turn
around the Sun only half of it would be
heated this would make it scorching hot
and brightly lit with the highest
temperatures at the equator this of
course would really be the bright side
of life
the second hemisphere would become a
kingdom of eternal night an arctic cold
nASA has another version earth would
stop turning altogether and there would
be a six-month day followed by a
six-month night
number eight the magnetic field
protecting Earth from dangerous cosmic
radiation would disappear the magnetic
field is basically formed due to the
outer core processes and the planets
spinning motion if the spinning stopped
the magnetic field would also disappear
predict Stan olden Walt the field
protects us from solar wind the charge
particles from the Sun that would
destroy every single living being boy
number nine if people survived it would
only be on the border of heat and cold
humanity would only be able to adapt to
the new conditions on the border of day
and night humans would have to live
underground and only go outside in
protective suits because of radiation
number ten the moon would eventually
fall onto earth but that wouldn't be so
professor von pratt of Stanford
University says the moon would gradually
slow down - and its distance from Earth
would reduce in time it would probably
just fall onto our planet in fact the
earth is slowing down in its youth it's
spun much faster a day lasted only six
hours the moon's gravity causes herbs
and tides that gradually drop the speed
of Earth's motion NASA calculated that a
day's length increases by 2.3
milliseconds every hundred years after
billions of years days would become
several times longer and then our planet
will probably stop completely and I
should live so long
share this video with everyone you know
to show them what would follow if earth
stops spinning in the future don't
forget to hit the like button below the
video and click subscribe to stay on the
bright side of life